README.md, before:

# Basic Data Types

![](https://unsplash.com/photos/8OyKWQgBsKQ/download?ixid=MnwxMjA3fDB8MXxzZWFyY2h8MXx8ZGF0YSUyMHR5cGVzfGVufDB8fHx8MTY2MjQ3Njc2MQ&force=true&w=640)



## Impetus

For us to be effective at analyzing a broad range of objects, we need to have appropriate representations of measurements and objects in the real world that we can use in our analyses.  

## Module Learning Objectives

This module has the following two learning objectives

**1. Master data type handling in R workflows**

> Learners will correctly use and distinguish between core R data types—including missing values (NA), numeric types and arithmetic operators, character strings (with operations like length, substring, splitting), logical data (and logical operators/coercion), and date/time objects (with base R and lubridate)—to prepare, troubleshoot, and validate population genetics datasets.

*Bloom’s Levels:* Apply (use, manipulate), Analyze (distinguish, troubleshoot).

**2. Integrate multi-type data for analysis-ready pipelines**

> Learners will craft concise, error-resistant R code that integrates multiple basic data types (e.g., cleaning missing data, parsing sample dates, filtering using logical conditions, manipulating strings for sample IDs, and performing numeric calculations), enabling seamless downstream population genetic analyses in R.

*Bloom’s Levels:* Apply (implement coding tasks), Create (compose analysis-ready pipelines).

## Content

This learning module has the following components:

 - [Video](https://www.loom.com/share/bfb38096deaf40ce81c04abfb6b24ee8?sid=a6d43f6d-b41f-4175-b5b4-dca9bdebb450) of the lecture content.  
 - [Slides](https://dyerlabteaching.github.io/Basic-Data-Types/slides.html) presented on the video.  
 - A longer [narrative](https://dyerlabteaching.github.io/Basic-Data-Types/narrative.html) on the topic.    
 - A general [cheatsheet](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rstudio/cheatsheets/master/base-r.pdf) for basic `R` functionality.  
 - Another [cheatsheet](https://github.com/DyerlabTeaching/Basic-Data-Types/raw/main/R_lubridate.pdf) for the library `lubridate`.
 - A [cheatshee](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/sf.pdf) for the `sp` library.
 - A [webpage](https://dyerlab.github.io/gstudio/) covering the `gstudio` package. 

## Contact Information

If you need to contact me, I am available at:  
 - Email: rjdyer@vcu.edu
 - Twitter: [@dyerlab](https://twitter.com/dyerlab/)

Commit message:

added Teaching log and updated README.md

README.md, after:

# Basic Data Types

![](https://unsplash.com/photos/8OyKWQgBsKQ/download?ixid=MnwxMjA3fDB8MXxzZWFyY2h8MXx8ZGF0YSUyMHR5cGVzfGVufDB8fHx8MTY2MjQ3Njc2MQ&force=true&w=640)



## Impetus

For us to be effective at analyzing a broad range of objects, we need to have appropriate representations of measurements and objects in the real world that we can use in our analyses.  

## Module Learning Objectives

This module has the following two learning objectives

**1. Master data type handling in R workflows**

> Learners will correctly use and distinguish between core R data types—including missing values (NA), numeric types and arithmetic operators, character strings (with operations like length, substring, splitting), logical data (and logical operators/coercion), and date/time objects (with base R and lubridate)—to prepare, troubleshoot, and validate population genetics datasets.

*Bloom’s Levels:* Apply (use, manipulate), Analyze (distinguish, troubleshoot).

**2. Integrate multi-type data for analysis-ready pipelines**

> Learners will craft concise, error-resistant R code that integrates multiple basic data types (e.g., cleaning missing data, parsing sample dates, filtering using logical conditions, manipulating strings for sample IDs, and performing numeric calculations), enabling seamless downstream population genetic analyses in R.

*Bloom’s Levels:* Apply (implement coding tasks), Create (compose analysis-ready pipelines).

## Content

This learning module has the following components:

 - [Video](https://www.loom.com/share/bfb38096deaf40ce81c04abfb6b24ee8?sid=a6d43f6d-b41f-4175-b5b4-dca9bdebb450) of the lecture content.  
 - [Slides](https://dyerlabteaching.github.io/Basic-Data-Types/slides.html) presented on the video.  
 - An [In-Class Activity](https://dyerlabteaching.github.io/Basic-Data-Types/in-class_data_types.html) for interactive work on basic data types and to give some confidence in the practitioner.
 - A longer [narrative](https://dyerlabteaching.github.io/Basic-Data-Types/narrative.html) on the topic.    
 - A general [cheatsheet](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rstudio/cheatsheets/master/base-r.pdf) for basic `R` functionality.  
 - Another [cheatsheet](https://github.com/DyerlabTeaching/Basic-Data-Types/raw/main/R_lubridate.pdf) for the library `lubridate`.
 - A [cheatsheet](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/sf.pdf) for the `sp` library.
 - A [webpage](https://dyerlab.github.io/gstudio/) covering the `gstudio` package. 

## Meta

- [Teaching Log]((https://dyerlabteaching.github.io/Basic-Data-Types/TeachingLog.html) record of delivery and notes.

## Contact Information

If you need to contact me, I am available at:  
 - Email: rjdyer@vcu.edu
 - Twitter: [@dyerlab](https://twitter.com/dyerlab/)
